We'll need to make it so that our transactions can't be traced either.
That's done by creating a wallet address.
Our wallet address is made from the public key in
a similar way to how the public key was made from the private key.
It's a similar issue,
so we handle it in a similar way.
This time we run our public key through an algorithm to create the wallet address.
Like before, this algorithm makes it possible to
find the wallet address from the public key, but not the opposite.
Bitcoin uses two different algorithms to make this happen.
These algorithms are the secure hash algorithm or
SHA-256 and the primitive to digest, or RIPEMD-160.
The numbers at the end stand for
the length of the output that's created by the algorithm.
256 means the output is 256 bits and 160 means that the output is 160 bits.
Here's what that process looks like.
We start with the public key.
From there, we run it through the SHA-256 hashing function.
That gives us a unique 256-bit number.
Next, we take that 256-bit number and run it through the RIPEMD-160 hashing function.
This turns that 256-bit number into a new unique 160-bit number.
This number is our wallet address.
We can share this unique,
secure wallet address without worrying about anyone
tracing that back to us or our secure wallet information.
At this point, the heavy lifting is done.
But we do put this final address through one more step.
This step isn't for security.
It's used to make an address that's a little easier for us to read.
This allows us to share it with others more easily.
Right now we're stuck with a huge ugly number that no one wants to look at.
To make something readable,
we want it to be a much shorter number.
To take it one step further.
Let's even take out numbers and letters that look
similar so we don't mix things up while reading them.
That means and a smaller string without zeros,
O's or other combinations of letters and numbers that look the same.
To do this, we take the 160-bit number that we got from
the RIPEMD-160 and put it through something known as a Base58Check.
The Base58Check takes that huge ugly number we didn't like
and turns it into a much smaller ugly number that we can share with anyone.
Okay. Now, we finally have our shareable wallet address.
That was a lot of information, so let's review.
Our goal was to create a wallet that provides
security while allowing us to make transactions.
To do this, we started with a private key,
which we want no one to see and pass it through an algorithm to create our public key.
This public key then went through some more algorithms to create our wallet address.
As you can see, this already is getting a bit complicated.
The benefit here is that many of these steps are programmed and happen automatically.
This allows everything to happen almost
instantaneously when compared to the banking system.